CS 122: Week 3: Joins (Part 1)

1) Use an inner join to join the Titles table with the Tracks table. 
SELECT ti.title, tr.tracktitle 
->FROM Tracks tr INNER JOIN Titles ti
->ON (ti.titleID = tr.titleID);

first you look for the album Title with their respective tracks.
you look for the same primary key, which in this case is titleID
here the table alias for tracks is "tr" and "ti" for titles, it 
makes what we have to type out shorter

and you can use "ON" instead of "WHERE"



2)Produce a list of artistnames, along with the firstname, 
lastname, and home phone of each responsible party for each artist group. 

SELECT DISTINCT a.ArtistName, m.firstname, m.lastname, m.homephone
->FROM Members M JOIN XrefArtistsMembers X USING (memberID)
->JOIN Artists A USING (artistID);

select distinct will only display one copy of each
using the XrefArtistsMembers table can get an individual's name under the 
artists table and also get their home phone number listed in 
the members table. We do this by joining them with the primary keys. 
You also define what the variables a and m mean.




3)Provide a list of all Mp3's that are produced by each studio. 
(Give tracktitle and studio name). 
SELECT Tracktitle, Studioname
->FROM Tracks, studio
->WHERE TrackTitle 
->LIKE MP3=1;

you select the tracktitle from the tracks table and studio name from the studio table.
Then you look at tracktitle,when mp3 =1 it means if it's true. If the track is and an 
mp3 file list the tracktitle and the studio name it belongs to.




4)I need information for an artists' label publication. 
Provide The artists' name, associated studio address (address, 
city, and country) along with UPC code (number). 

SELECT a.Artistname, ti.titles, s.address, s.city, s.country
->FROM Artists, Titles, Studios
->WHERE A.artists = ti.Titles  AND ti.Titles = s.Studios;
i selected the individual's artist name from the artists table, 
the upc code from the titles table , and the address, city, and
 country from the studios table.
I joined the tables using two equi-join conditions.




5)Provide a list of all track titles produced by the Artist "The Neurotics". 

SELECT Tracktitle, Artists
-> FROM tracks
-> Where Artistname = 'The Neurotics';

 We look at the tables Artists and tracks, we get the track title 
 form the tracks table only if the artists name is "the Neurotics.








End